---
layout: default
title:  "Homeless to $100k"
date:   2018-02-13 15:23:01 +0800
categories: posts
---


**In 2016 we quit our jobs, took our modest savings and moved. We volunteered 
in small communities, traveled with a backpack and a tent, ate life-changing 
and stomach-changing cuisine. Now, as we pack up and move on to our next 
chapter, I want to document how we restart our lives in a community that is now largely foreign to us.**

In 2015 my wife and I visited South East Asia. We were struck by the people, 
the lifestyle and the natural world that we never knew existed.

This experiment is mainly to satisfy my own curiosity. How hard is it get on 
your feet in todays environment? Is it still possible to achieve "the American 
Dream" starting from nothing?

When I say "homeless", that means, we have no place to call our home. At the 
start we will live with family, on couches, in guest bedrooms. How fast can we 
get a place of our own? I genuinely don't know. 

"Starting from nothing". When we left two years ago, we put several items in 
storage. Here is a run down of our current assets:

- 2004 Toyota Tacoma 275,000 miles (Needs to be registered for 2018, and 
insured, tune up likely necessary) 
BlueBook value ~ $3,500

- Queen size matress (Likely to remain in storage until first apartment) 
Resale Value ~$100

- Electric Slow Cooker
Resale Value ~$25

- Misc. Kitchen Utensils
Resale Value ~$50

- Carpentry Tools
Resale Value ~$500

- Laptop (2)
Resale Value ~$500

- Clothing (1 Large Suitcase, 2 small suitcases for 2 people)
Resale Value ~$100

- Suitcaces (1 Large, 2 Small, 1 Folding)
Resale Value ~$250  

That's not starting from nothing. I agree. This is more than a large 
percentage of the world may ever own. And after seeing farmers that own a hoe, 
a hose, a patch of land and a rusty cooking pot, I am thrilled to be coming 
back to such a bounty. 

However, that's where we are at, not exactly pushing a shopping cart of cans, 
but few people would trade what they have now for this list.

# So what's the plan?

Spend nothing. 

Get day work.

Land a steady job.

Advance at said job.


## Spend nothing: Food
For the past two years we have been fortunate to eat wonderful, fragrant, 
fresh food. Most days I could look out my window and see the farm where the 
vegetables we were chopping were grown. "eat local" "farm to table" whatever, 
marketing talk for what the rest of the world calls everyday life. (Unashamed to say the first week will be undoubtedly be a binge of In N Out and tacoshop carne asada)

With meat at a premium in these areas, we mainly ate rice, vegetables, and 
beans. Doing the same while back in America will keep our daily food allowance 
low, and our protein + calorie per dollar high.

## Spend nothing: Housing
Our biggest asset in my mind is our family. We have a wonderful network of generous and open hearted people that are ready to offer what they can. Without being a burden, we will stay with a few relatives. Some will be couches, some a private room. Access to their kitchens will be shared.

## Spend nothing: Clothing
Using the last of our local currency, we will buy some cheap clothing and shoes to replace our worn-out, dirty and otherwise ruined items. "Ralph Aosi" jeans, "Suprme" shirts, and "Haens" underwear, the finer things.


## Spend nothing: Etcetera
Movies, concerts, breweries...this will be tough as undoubtedly any circle of friends will be going every weekend.

## Get Day Work: Carpentry
Need something made of wood? Need something fixed? Installed? Changed? Moved? This will be my bread and butter to get quick, liquid capital. However, to progress towards the $100k goal, I need to move past it quickly.

## Land a Steady Job: Software
Yes I spent the last two years without a source of income. No, I didn't sit on a beach drinking beer. During this time I've read [books](insert amazon links) and taken [courses](insert coursera/codeac links) on programming. Working remotely suits my personality, and the lifestyle I want for my family. Software seems the best bet. Looking for a UX engineer? Front end web development? Swift iOS engineer? [resume](insert resume pdf link)

## Advance at said job
While software intrigues me, and I am getting better each day, interacting with and benefitting people is still my biggest passion. I am working towards understanding people better, this combined with software development skills will help me to transition to a position in mangaging development projects.







